# Skilled with using your editor(s) of choice (Visual Studio, Sublime, Vim, Emacs, etc)

My current IDEs of choice are Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio Code, UltraEdit (text editor), MS SQL Management Studio, and LINQPad.

## Visual Studio
I've developed projects with every version of Visual Studio since version 6.0.  I've built and debugged projects in VB, ASP, C++, C#, and Python.

## Visual Studio Code
I am currently using this for lighter development tasks.  Particularly for markup or scripting language tasks, like MarkDown, HTML, & JavaScript. 

## UltraEdit
I have been using UltraEdit for the last 11 years.  I have used on many different projects. Particulary when I need robust regular expression support, or large text file parsing.  I've even used it as a Linux terminal and SCP client.

## MS SQL Management Studio
This is the IDE I like to use for data exploration and T-SQL testing.  It has a fair amount of code snippet support, and has improved in intellisense support over the years.

 ## LINQPad
 LINQPad is the main tool I use for C# prototyping and data data development.  Since it is fully .Net & NUGET enabled, it offers a really fast and reliable way of testing different coding concepts and patterns without having to create an entire development project.
 
 I also appreciate the fact that it can handle processes which require large memory space (4 GB+).  This makes it an excellent bridge between compiled programs and quick "scripts".  While inheriting all the benefits of coding in a strongly typed language.
 
<br/>
<hr/>

## Skilled with using your editor(s) of choice (Visual Studio, Sublime, Vim, Emacs, etc): Visual Studio

* Be able to show you’ve learned some useful keyboard shortcuts for whatever editor you’re using. Using Visual Studio as an example, show how you can add or remove breakpoints with a keyboard shortcut, build the project, or how to do a refactoring with ReSharper

    * Useful VS shortcuts:
        - `F2` - Refactor/Rename class/member
        - `F5` - Run/Start Debug the application
        - `F10` - Step into the next execution statement
        - `F12` - Go to a class/member definition
        - `Ctrl+Shift+B` - Build the solution
        - `Ctrl+[-]` - Navigate backward in last edit stack
        - `Ctrl+[+]` - Navigate forward in last edit stack (assuming you've navigated backward) 
        - `Alt+Shift+[Left Mouse Click/Up or Down Arrow]` - Allows for column multi-edit selection

   * ReSharper Plugin
        - `Ctrl+Shift+N` - Go to a file name. This one is especially useful because it handles partial name matches.
        - `Alt+Enter` - Pulls up the context menu for different code quality enhancement suggestions

    * CodeMaid
        - `Ctrl+M, Ctrl+Space` - Format current document
        - `Ctrl+M, Ctrl+Z` - Reorganize current document

* Demonstrate that you know your way around the editor and its features

    * How to build
        Building is simple, either use the `Ctrl+Shift+B` shortcut or you can use the `Build -> Build Solution` menu option.  If you originally created the project via Visual Studio, it should already be set up with a boiler-plate level build configuration.

        Otherwise, it will depend on how the project was set-up. Some sort of command line operation involving the `dotnet.exe [build|publish]` command or a custom execution script, like a Cake csx file.

    * Debug vs release
        
        Selecting Debug vs. Release offers the opportunity for different compilation tokens that provide potentially different execution properties. Things like extra logging, detailed exception handling, and different configuration settings.

    * How to edit project and solution settings

        Project settings can be edited through the UI or through a text editor interface.  It allows for different .Net Framework targeting, chip architecture compilation (x86, x64, or AnyCPU), default execution command line arguments, and compile symbol definitions.

        The IDE also allow for different project publishing methods. Like deploy to and IIS server, Click-Once, and more complicated MSI and install executable tools.

    * How to start up multiple projects

        The solution can be configured to set a particular start-up project. Also projects can be mapped to other projects that they rely on.  Those projects will then in turn be built and started before the dependent projects.

    * Refactoring

        VS allows for renaming and signature changes. ReSharper has a more robust set of tools for class extraction and relocation.  I particularly like a tool called CodeMaid that cleans and formats code.  This includes method re-ordering and removal of unused `using` statements.

        ReSharper also adds some auto-complete and code quality refactoring tools. It offers comprehensive best-practice suggestions and will even implement them for you to save time.

    * Searching or navigating code

        The built-in universal search `Ctrl+Shift+F` looks for any phrase in any file (filterable by extension).  It also allows for Regular Expression Pattern Match searches. This is really useful, if you don't know the exact thing you're looking for, but can narrow down results with a small bit of fuzzy pattern syntax.

    * Basic to intermediate commands specific to your chosen editor

        Visual Studio allows for quite powerful operations with a relatively small learning curve.  It has a lot of community extensions.  Like ReSharper, CodeMaid, RedGate Sql Search, and Visual Studio Power Tools.

        I personally like its integration of Source Control plug-ins like Visual Studio Team Services and GitHub.  I've used it several different languages, like C#, C, C++, F#, Python, and R.  I've even used it with NVIDIA's Cuda GPU toolkit to do parallel processing tasks using the NVIDIA GPU.


